Tutorial - React Surveys (#6814)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/react-surveys.md

---
title: How to set up surveys in React
date: 2023-09-27
author: ["lior-neu-ner"]
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
featuredImage: ../images/tutorials/banners/surveys-hog.jpg
tags: ['surveys']
---

> [Surveys](/docs/surveys) are a great tool to collect qualitative feedback from your users. This tutorial shows you how to implement a survey in your React app.
> 
> We'll cover creating a basic React app, adding PostHog, creating a survey, and then adding the code to show the survey and collect responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Surveys](/docs/surveys) are a great tool to collect qualitative feedback from your users. This tutorial shows you how to implement a survey in a React app. 

We'll create a basic React app, add PostHog, create a survey, and then add the code to show the survey in-app and collect responses.
```

PostHog will manage our survey and track our results. To use [PostHog's React SDK](/docs/libraries/react), install `posthog-js`:

```bash
npm install posthog-js
```

Once installed, import PostHog into `src/index.js` and set up a client using a project API key and instance address from the [project settings](https://app.posthog.com/project/settings). Then, wrap the app with `PostHogProvider` to access PostHog in any component.

```js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import './index.css';
import App from './App';
import posthog from 'posthog-js'
import { PostHogProvider } from 'posthog-js/react'

posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {
  api_host: '<ph_instance_address>',
})

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <PostHogProvider client={posthog}>
      <App />
    </PostHogProvider>
  </React.StrictMode>
);
```

With PostHog set up, our React app is ready for the survey.

## Creating a survey

There are two options for displaying a survey using PostHog:

1. Implement your own survey UI.
2. Use PostHog's prebuilt survey UI.

This tutorial will cover how to implement both options:

> ## Option 1: Implement your own survey UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Option 1: Implement your own survey UI
```

First, create a survey in PostHog by going to the [surveys tab](https://app.posthog.com/surveys) and clicking "New survey." Then, set up your survey with the following:

1. Add a name (like `my-first-survey`)
2. Set the display mode to `API`
3. Set the question type to `Rating`, question title to `How likely are you to recommend us to a friend?`, display type to `number` and scale to `1-10`.
4. You can leave the remaining optional properties blank (such as `Targeting` or `Thank you message`).

Click "Save as draft" and then on the next screen click "Launch". We're now ready to integrate this survey into our app.

![Custom survey set up](../images/tutorials/react-surveys/create-api-survey.png)

> ### Adding the surveys code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Adding the survey code
```

There are three parts to adding code for our custom survey:

1. Create the survey UI.
2. Add the logic for displaying it.
3. Capture interactions from it.

#### 1. Create the survey UI

We've created an example survey UI for this tutorial. To use it, create a new file in `./src` folder called `Survey.js` and paste the following code:

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```react
```
js-web?

Author: will use js-web for now, There is a bug where react code blocks dont format correctly - https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/6835

// src/Survey.js
import React from 'react';

function Survey({ title, onDismiss, onSubmit }) {
  const [selectedValue, setSelectedValue] = React.useState(null);

  const handleSelect = (value) => {
    setSelectedValue(value);
  }

  const handleSubmit = () => {
    onSubmit(selectedValue);
  }

  return (
    <div className="survey-popup">
      <h2>{title}</h2>
      <div>
        {[...Array(10)].map((_, i) => (
          <button key={i + 1} onClick={() => handleSelect(i + 1)}>{i + 1}</button>
        ))}
      </div>
      <div>
        <button onClick={onDismiss}>Dismiss</button>

>         <button onClick={handleSubmit}>Submit</button>

Reviewer: Could we remove this button and just make selecting value dismiss the survey? Kind of what I expected it to do.

      </div>
    </div>
  );
}

export default Survey;
```

Then, add the following CSS styles to your `index.css` file:

```css
.survey-popup {
  position: fixed;
  bottom: 20px;
  right: 20px;
  width: 300px;
  padding: 20px;
  background-color: #ffffff;
  box-shadow: 0px 0px 10px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);
  border-radius: 5px;
  z-index: 1000;
}

button {
  margin: 5px;
}
```

Finally, integrate the component into `App.js`:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```react
```

// src/App.js
import './App.css';
import { useState } from 'react';
import Survey from './Survey';

function App() {
  const [showSurvey, setShowSurvey] = useState(true);

  const handleDismiss = () => {
    setShowSurvey(false);
    console.log("Survey dismissed!");
  };

  const handleSubmit = (value) => {
    setShowSurvey(false);
    console.log("User submitted:", value);
  };

  return (
    <div className="App">
      <h1>This is our survey tutorial</h1>
      {showSurvey && (
        <Survey
          title="Rate our service"
          onDismiss={handleDismiss}
          onSubmit={handleSubmit}
        />
      )}
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;
```

> This will show a survey popup every time you visit `localhost:3000`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This show a survey popup every time you visit your app's homepage.
```

![Custom survey UI](../images/tutorials/react-surveys/survey-ui.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### 2. Add the logic for displaying it.

> The first part of handling our display logic is fetching the survey from PostHog. PostHog keeps track of all active surveys for a user (this is especially helpful if you have set up [custom targeting options](/docs/surveys/creating-surveys#targeting) a user must meet to be eligible for a survey). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first part of handling our display logic is fetching the survey from PostHog. PostHog keeps track of all active surveys for a user (this is especially helpful if you have set up [custom targeting options](/docs/surveys/creating-surveys#targeting)). 
```

To fetch the active surveys, we use the `usePostHog` hook to retrieve our PostHog instance. Then, we call `posthog.getActiveMatchingSurveys()` using `useEffect()`:

```js
// src/App.js

> import { usePostHog } from 'posthog-js/react';
> import './App.css';
> import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import './App.css';
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import Survey from './Survey';
import { usePostHog } from 'posthog-js/react';
```

function App() {
  // ... rest of your code ...

  const posthog = usePostHog()
  useEffect(() => {
    posthog.getActiveMatchingSurveys((surveys) => {
      // TODO: configure the survey
    }); 

>   },
>   [posthog]); // posthog may be undefined until it's had a chance to initialize. Hence use it as a dependency for useEffect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  }, [posthog]); // posthog may be undefined until it's had a chance to initialize. Hence use it as a dependency for useEffect
```

            "display":"number",
            "question":"How likely are you to recommend us to a friend?",
            "description":"",
            "lowerBoundLabel":"Unlikely",
            "upperBoundLabel":"Very likely"
         }
      ],
      "conditions":null,
      "appearance":{
         "textColor":"black",
         "whiteLabel":false,
         "backgroundColor":"white",
         "submitButtonText":"Submit",
         "ratingButtonColor":"#e0e2e8",
         "submitButtonColor":"#2c2c2c",
         "descriptionTextColor":"#4b4b52",
         "thankYouMessageHeader":"Thank you for your feedback!",
         "displayThankYouMessage":true
      },
      "start_date":"2023-09-26T09:44:31.844000Z",
      "end_date":null
   }
]
```

We can use this survey object to configure our `Survey` component:

```js
  // ... rest of your code ...

  const [surveyTitle, setSurveyTitle] = useState(false);
  const [surveyID, setSurveyID] = useState(false);

  useEffect(() => {
    posthog.getActiveMatchingSurveys((surveys) => {
      if (surveys.length > 0) {
        const survey = surveys[0];
        setSurveyID(survey.id);
        setSurveyTitle(survey.questions[0].question)
      }
    }); 

>   },
>   [posthog]); // posthog may be undefined until it's had a chance to initialize. Hence use it as a dependency for useEffect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  }, [posthog]); // posthog may be undefined until it's had a chance to initialize. Hence use it as a dependency for useEffect
```

  
  // ... rest of your code ...

 return (
 <div className="App">
   <h1>This is our survey tutorial</h1>
   {showSurvey && (
     <Survey
       title={surveyTitle}
       onDismiss={handleDismiss}
       onSubmit={handleSubmit}
     />
   )}
 </div>
```

> Finally, we want to make sure we don't show the survey again to users who have either submitted a response or dismissed it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we want to make sure we don't show the survey again to users who have either submitted or dismissed it. 
```

> We'll use [`localStorage`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage) to store this data. Then, we'll show the survey based on whether the user has already interacted with it or not:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use [`localStorage`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage) to store this data. Then, we'll add a check to show the survey based on whether the user has already interacted with it or not:
```

    setShowSurvey(!hasInteractedWithSurvey);
  }, [surveyID]);

  const handleDismiss = () => {
    setShowSurvey(false);
    console.log("Survey dismissed!");
    localStorage.setItem(`hasInteractedWithSurvey_${surveyID}`, 'true');
    posthog.capture("survey dismissed", {
      $survey_id: {surveyID} // required
    })
  };

  const handleSubmit = (value) => {
    setShowSurvey(false);
    console.log("User submitted:", value);
    localStorage.setItem(`hasInteractedWithSurvey_${surveyID}`, 'true');  
    posthog.capture("survey sent", {
      $survey_id: {surveyID}, // required
      $survey_response: {value} // required
    })
  };

  useEffect(() => {
    if (posthog && surveyID && showSurvey) {
      posthog.capture("survey seen", {
        $survey_id: {surveyID} // required
      })
    }
  }, [showSurvey, surveyID, posthog])

  return (
    <div className="App">
      <h1>This is our survey tutorial</h1>
      {showSurvey && (
        <Survey
          title={surveyTitle}
          onDismiss={handleDismiss}
          onSubmit={handleSubmit}
        />
      )}
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;
```

That's it! Our survey is ready to go!

> ### Option 2: Use PostHog's prebuilt survey UI

Reviewer: It might be a lot simpler to show the prebuilt survey UI first. I gets hidden in this post otherwise.

Author: I thought about it and my thinking was that the custom survey aligns closer to the title "how to implement surveys in react". My concern is that putting the prebuilt survey first is a bit sneaky and pushing posthog too much

Alternatively, if you find it tedious to build and maintain your own UI, you can simply use PostHog's prebuilt surveys. There are variety of [survey types](/docs/surveys/creating-surveys#question-type) to choose from, and PostHog will handle all the display logic and event capturing for you.
 
To create a survey with a prebuilt UI, set the display mode to **`Popover`** when creating your survey. There are no further code changes needed!

> 

Reviewer: Fill in details? Can you test what it looks like in app? How to launch?

Reviewer: This is especially important if you move it above the custom UI setup.

![Popover survey set up](../images/tutorials/react-surveys/create-popover-survey.png)

## Viewing results

After interacting with your survey, you can view results by selecting the survey from the [surveys tab](https://app.posthog.com/surveys). You'll see data on:

- How many users have seen the survey.
- How many users have dismissed the survey.
- Responses.

You can also filter these results based on [user properties](/docs/product-analytics/user-properties), [cohorts](/docs/data/cohorts), [feature flags](/docs/feature-flags/creating-feature-flags) and more.

![Popover survey set up](../images/tutorials/react-surveys/survey-results.png)

> ## Further reading

Reviewer: https://posthog.com/blog/product-survey-questions could be a nice one to add
